---
layout: post
title: "Week 15: Group Presentations"
---

## Our Presentation

I was really excited to present our work on Wednesday! I think we did a great job introducing the project, explaining all our issues and solutions to an audience with no familiarity with it, and reflecting on our work over the past few months. Creating the presentation felt very full circle and helped me acknowledge how far I had come in this class. I remember signing up and feeling super nervous that I'd be the only person unfamiliar with open source and contributing, and now I feel confident continuing to contribute to projects that interest me in the future. I made contributions that I never would have believed I could at the beginning of the class, so I feel very accomplished.  

It was also our last hurrah as a group! I think Rebecca, Jaden, and I worked really well together throughout the semester (which I've come to accept is a rarity in college), and I definitely feel like that showed in our presentation. Overall, we all supported each other through the various hurdles that come with OSSD, and I am super grateful to have learned alongside them.

I plan to keep contributin in the future, especially to financial health related projects, and had a great introduction with Actual Budget. Though budgeting may not work super well for me right now, I hope to revisit it (maybe when I have a stable paycheck) or find methodology other than envelope budgeting.

<!--more-->

## Other Groups

I loved listening to other groups' presentations and learning about what they had been working on over the last few months. 

Keycloak was super interesting, not just because it was first, but because they worked on meaningful, net-new features. I loved the idea of changing the password timeout period at the organization level, and hearing how they navigated building that feature was amazing. It was definitely a big undertaking. They also seemed to have integrated really well into the community, which I have to give them major props for. Actual didn’t have much synchronous communication, so it felt a bit difficult trying to connect with others. It was cool to see that they joined things like town halls and communicated frequently via Slack.

Nanobot was also a super cool presentation to learn about. The project itself was really interesting, and I’m surprised I had never heard about it, especially since there’s been so much buzz about Open Claw. Building a non–vibe-coded version of it is a great idea, especially after hearing that it could run on a Raspberry Pi instead of a Mac Mini. The group also made really impactful contributions like allowing the user to call specific tools with /slash and trying to add web-crawling (though it was not merged). They also did a great job explaining the project and the architechture, which I appreciated because I wasn't super familiar with the intricacies of agent architechture. I just wish their demo hadn’t broken, that would’ve been super cool to see.

I also liked hearing about Frosty, the Twitch clone for emotes. At first, I was confused by the concept because I thought there would be an impending “threat” (though I don’t think you can really threaten an open source project) of Twitch making emotes native to the app. But hearing the group’s explanation clarified the actual risk there. They also made several significant feature updates, like picture-in-picture and fixing the two play buttons, both of which make the app much more user-friendly. It was also impressive to hear how many issues (including the oldest open issue) the picture-in-picture feature resolved. I hope their maintainer revisits the project soon and merges all their PRs!

Overall, all the projects did great, and I'm excited to hear from even more groups tomorrow.