---
layout: post
title: "Week 7: Getting Started With Actual Budget"
---

## Team Working Agreement

This week my group and I met to create our [team working agreement](https://github.com/ossd-s26/wiki/wiki/Group_C_-_working_agreement) and choose our project to begin contributing to! I am working with Rebecca and Jaden, whom I've already been able to get to know very well by working on our browser extension project, affirmME. As such, it was super easy for us to create our working agreement and decide on working expectations and a regular cadence for syncs. I feel confident that we have set ourselves up for success by setting clear expectations and values for our project this semester.

## Actual Budget

For our project, we decided to work on [Actual Budget](https://github.com/ossd-s26/project-evaluation/blob/main/actual_budget.md), which is a local-first, privacy-focused personal finance tool that follows the envelope budgeting system. I found this project while looking for good communities to join and was drawn to it because of its focus on personal finance and welcoming community. I pitched it to Rebecca and Jaden and they were extremely interested. We all liked it because it was a product that we could personally use and benefit from (making us stronger community members) and because it allowed us to touch on various parts of the development experience. There were also a decent number of issues marked "good first issues" and a very active, responsive community, which helped us all feel at ease contributing.

<!--more-->

After deciding on our project, we all installed the development environment and helped each other out with issues we faced while doing so, and also began to set up our own accounts on Actual Budget. We've all synced our bank accounts and have gotten started interacting with the app on a daily basis. For next class we agreed to discuss our personal experience with the app and also identify a good issue that we'd like to take on.

I'm excited for what's to come!