---
layout: post
title: "Week 12: Industry Use and Participation in Open Source"
---

## Industry Use of Open Source

I thought this discussion was super interesting. I feel like we’ve talked before about companies going open source in situations like Netscape, where it was more of a strategic move in response to competition. But this lecture felt different because it focused on taking something that is already open source and still finding a way to build a real business around it. I had only ever heard of this for mySQL briefly in a class before, but never truly explored the idea or how that model even worked.

After learning about the business model, it makes a lot of sense. There is clearly a lot of money in customer support and services. Even if the software itself is free, people are still willing to pay for convenience, reliability, and not having to deal with everything themselves. I know I still would! Before this, I had heard of companies like Red Hat and WordPress, but I never really understood how their business models worked, so this made it a lot clearer.

<!--more-->

I also found the film industry case study really interesting. It seems like at some point, when something is no longer novel, there is no real benefit to every company building their own version of it. Instead, it makes more sense to combine efforts and create a shared standard. Otherwise, you just end up with unnecessary rework and fragmentation. However, even though it makes logical sense, I still never would have expected it because I imagine a need to keep "company secrets," but there's really no point when every studio is doing the same effects.

Overall, this made me think more about how open source fits into real business strategy. It is not just about making things free, but about deciding where companies should compete v. where they should collaborate.